# Hybrid-phage-genome-sequence-analysis
This code was originally developed to analyze hybrid bacteriophage (phage) genome sequences that stem from two related parental phages. The code scans through a multiple genome sequence alignment containing the parental phages and hybrids, identifies positions where the parental strains are different from one another (by a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) or a gap), and then at the differing positions, determines the fraction of hybrids that possess the identity of the first parental sequence in the alignment. 

# How to Run the Code
The code uses as input a multiple sequence alignment generated by Clustal Omega, in which the parental phages are the first two sequences to appear in the alignment. The input files must be appended with '.txt' extension before analysis. For example, if the file name is 'Hybrids_1-8_alignment.clustal_num', it should be changed to 'Hybrids_1-8_alignment.clustal_num.txt' before running the code.
Place this sequence file in the same folder where MainScript.py resides. In MainScript.py, edit line 41 (line = read_file('...')) and paste the sequence file name. Include the '.txt' file extension. After running the code, the results will be reported as a csv file named 'Analysis_Results.csv', which can be found in the same folder.
Note that MainScript.py requires the Pandas package to be installed.
Two exemplar sequence files are included for analysis: 'Hybrids_1-8_alignment.clustal_num' and 'Hybrids_9-18_alignment.clustal_num'.
